# Meeting Notes 24.02.2022

## Attendance ✅ ❌:

| Name   | abbr     | attendance |
| ------ | -------- | ---------- |
| Marco  | forstma1 | ✅          |
| Dan    | hochsdan | ✅          |
| Luis   | miranlui | ✅          |
| Monika | reif     | ❌          |
| Stefan | brrt     | ❌          |

## Notes

- Merging both meetings into one would be good

- Deadlines

  - Car assembly deadline doesn't matter for us

  - 08.07.2022 is deadline for the video of the car driving itself

    => everything should be done at least 1 week before

  - Implementation should be done at around semester end, so we have enough time for testing

- Simulation Tool Ba will probably be based on [fs-driverless.github.io](http://fs-driverless.github.io)

- Input

  - Need to figure out what input we need
  - Other teams can adapt on our needs
  - Should have it in 1-2 weeks

- Luis will discuss with Monika about the MS channel

  => easiest would be to invite her to the existing channel in FSZHAW

- Input/Output interfaces will be very important

  - e.g. output could be a list of points (for the car to drive to)

## TODOs

- Figure out what we need as Input (in 1-2 weeks)
- Invite Monika to the Teams Channel (Luis)
- Think about Input/Output
- Send invitations for newly merged meeting